RC 1 draft (#21)
open-gitops/documents: GLOSSARY.md

    The temporary suspension of GitOps principles, often accomplished by pausing automated _Reconciliation_.
    While these principles apply to typical operations, it may at times be necessary to temporarily pause reconciliation, for example during incident management activities.
    In these cases, other modes of operations should be considered (e.g. manual intervention), followed by any necessary updates to the desired state declarations, and finally resuming reconciliation of the system with the updated declarations.
    Pragmatic exceptions to these guiding principles are expected from time to time during the journey toward a system being fully managed by GitOps.

- ## Continuous

    By "continuous" we adopt the industry standard to mean that _Reconciliation_ continues to happen, not that it must be instantaneous.

- ## Declarative Description

    Describing the desired state or behavior of a system without specifying how that state will be achieved, thereby separating configuration (the desired state) from the implementation (commands, API calls, scripts etc.) that actually achieves the desired state described in the declarative description.

- ## Desired State

>     The aggregate of all configuration data for a system form its _Desired State_ which is defined as data sufficient to recreate the system so that instances of the system are behaviourally indistinguishable.

Reviewer: Worth adding a note about the data in those systems not being a part of the desired state?

Author: @RedbackThomson Ah that's right, this came up during the principles meetings. I had forgotten to account for that in this draft for RC 1. Do you want to [suggest](https://docs.github.com/en/github/collaborating-with-pull-requests/reviewing-changes-in-pull-requests/incorporating-feedback-in-your-pull-request) an edit to this?

Reviewer: Perhaps

```suggestion
     The aggregate of all configuration data for a system form its _Desired State_ which is defined as data sufficient to recreate the system so that instances of the system are behaviourally indistinguishable, but does not include the state of any data stored within the system, eg. user data. 
```

- ## Drift

    When a system's _Actual State_ changes for any reason other than its versioned _Desired State_ declarations having changed, we say that the system has drifted from its _Desired State_.

- ## Reconciliation

>     The process of ensuring that the _Actual State_ of a sytem matches its versioned _Desired State_ declarations.

Reviewer: `s/sytem/system/g`

Author: @RedbackThomson would you please DM me your email for co-authorship purposes in the commit?

Author: For now I noted your username in the commit, and added a to-do item to the PR description to add co-author credits to this PR for everyone who participates. Thank you!

Author: Got your email. Amended the commit to include your co-authored-by info 👍

    Contrary to CIops, any divergence between the two will trigger reconciliation, regardless of where changes occured.
    Divergence could be due to the actual state unintentionally _Drifting_ from the desired state declarations, or a new desired state declaration version having been changed intentionally.

- ## Software System

    One or more Runtime environments consisting of resources under management.

>     In each Runtime, management Agents to act on resources according to security policies.

Reviewer: The second clause of this seems incomplete?

Author: @RedbackThomson  I agree it reads incomplete as a paragraph, but I thought this could be addressed after RC 1 since it's been like this since February. See https://github.com/open-gitops/documents/pull/15#pullrequestreview-716397234

PS, while this glossary item was initially drafted with line breaks, I believe it was intended to be a list comprising the different parts of a software system as we currently understand it (see https://github.com/gitops-working-group/gitops-working-group/commit/ff540e1552e5a41c03a1fb317d554567777cdfe5). Like this:

> - **Software System:**
>     - One or more Runtime environments consisting of resources under management
>     - In each Runtime, management Agents to act on resources according to security policies
>     - One or more software Repositories for storing deployable artifacts that may be loaded into the runtime environments, eg. configuration files, code, binaries and packages
>     - One or more Administrators who are responsible for operating the runtime environments ie. installing, starting, stopping and updating software, code, configuration, etc
>     - A set of policies controlling access and management of repos, deployment, runtimes

Now that I say this, it would be an easy fix. Does this definition read more clearly as a list?

Reviewer: It does read more clearly as a list, although I was more specifically pointing out the following line:
> In each Runtime, management Agents to act on resources according to security policies

However, I understand if you want to leave the glossary as it stands for another time.

Author: @RedbackThomson ok we can change to a list, since that's what it should have been all along. About that one list item, does this feel more clear/complete below?

```diff
- In each Runtime, management Agents to act on resources according to security policies
+ In each Runtime, the management Agents which act on resources according to security policies
```

Reviewer: Yes :) That sounds good. Thanks

Author: How does this part look now?

Reviewer: Looks great, Scott. Thank you

# GitOps Glossary

This glossary accompanies the [GitOps Principles](./PRINCIPLES.md), and other supporting documents in this repository.

- ## Break Glass

>     The temporary suspension of GitOps principles, often accomplished by pausing automated _Reconciliation_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The temporary suspension of GitOps principles, often accomplished by pausing automated [reconciliation](#reconciliation).
```

    While these principles apply to typical operations, it may at times be necessary to temporarily pause reconciliation, for example during incident management activities.
    In these cases, other modes of operations should be considered (e.g. manual intervention), followed by any necessary updates to the desired state declarations, and finally resuming reconciliation of the system with the updated declarations.
    Pragmatic exceptions to these guiding principles are expected from time to time during the journey toward a system being fully managed by GitOps.

> 

Author: Agree with what you said here https://github.com/open-gitops/documents/pull/21#pullrequestreview-755646124:

> Removing "Break Glass" can wait until the RC feedback stage if you're more comfortable... I think we're good to move forward.

Making minor grammar, formatting and link fixes is ok even after others have reviewed this PR, but I am more comfortable leaving this as-is for now and discussing your point as part of the feedback for RC 1, given that the goal of that is to get wider feedback through an RC/feedback process from the group (including us) and wider community. Otherwise I think we'd need to wait for re-review by everyone on this PR. Instead let's meet the [milestone to release RC 1 today](https://github.com/open-gitops/documents/milestone/6).

- ## Continuous

>     By "continuous" we adopt the industry standard to mean that _Reconciliation_ continues to happen, not that it must be instantaneous.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    By "continuous" we adopt the industry standard to mean that [reconciliation](#reconciliation) continues to happen, not that it must be instantaneous.
```

- ## Declarative Description

    Describing the desired state or behavior of a system without specifying how that state will be achieved, thereby separating configuration (the desired state) from the implementation (commands, API calls, scripts etc.) that actually achieves the desired state described in the declarative description.

- ## Desired State

>     The aggregate of all configuration data for a system form its _Desired State_ which is defined as data sufficient to recreate the system so that instances of the system are behaviourally indistinguishable, but does not include the state of any data stored within the system, eg. user data. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The aggregate of all configuration data for a system form its desired state which is defined as data sufficient to recreate the system so that instances of the system are behaviourally indistinguishable, but do not include the state of any data stored within the system, eg. database contents. 
```

User data could mean lots of things so let's go with database contents. Also "do" not include since it's operating from data, which is plural.

- ## Drift

>     When a system's _Actual State_ changes for any reason other than its versioned _Desired State_ declarations having changed, we say that the system has drifted from its _Desired State_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    When a system's actual state changes for any reason other than its versioned [desired state](#desired-state) declarations having changed, we say that the system has drifted from its desired state.
```

- ## Reconciliation

>     The process of ensuring that the _Actual State_ of a system matches its versioned _Desired State_ declarations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The process of ensuring that the actual state of a system matches its [desired state](#desired-state) declarations.
```
Not terribly needed given that versioned is covered.

Author: Agreed, "versioned" was never an important part of this glossary item, and is addressed explicitly in principle 2 👍

    Contrary to CIops, any divergence between the two will trigger reconciliation, regardless of where changes occured.

>     Divergence could be due to the actual state unintentionally _Drifting_ from the desired state declarations, or a new desired state declaration version having been changed intentionally.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Divergence could be due to the actual state unintentionally [drifting](#drift) from the desired state declarations, or a new desired state declaration version having been changed intentionally.
```

- ## Software System

  We currently understand a software system to include:

>   - One or more Runtime environments consisting of resources under management

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - One or more runtime environments consisting of resources under management
```

>   - In each Runtime, the management Agents which act on resources according to security policies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - In each runtime, the management agents which act on resources according to security policies
```

Fixing capitalization.

>   - One or more software Repositories for storing deployable artifacts that may be loaded into the runtime environments, eg. configuration files, code, binaries and packages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - One or more software repositories for storing deployable artifacts that may be loaded into the runtime environments, eg. configuration files, code, binaries, and packages
```

Reviewer 2: I will suggest removing this section and the one about administrators from the glossary in RC1. Not a show stopper.

Author: OK, I'll "unresolve" this comment to remind you to bring that up during the process of discussing feedback on RC 1 🕐

  - One or more Administrators who are responsible for operating the runtime environments ie. installing, starting, stopping and updating software, code, configuration, etc
  - A set of policies controlling access and management of repositories, deployments, runtimes

> - ## State Store
> 
>     A system for storing immutable versions of _Desired State_ declarations.
>     This state store should provide access control and auditing on the changes to the Desired State.
>     Git is the canonical example used as this State Store, and where GitOps derived its name, but but any other system that meets this criteria may be used.
>     In all cases these must be properly configured, and special precautions must be taken to comply with requirements set out in the GitOps Principles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ## State Store

    A system for storing immutable versions of [Desired State](#desired-state) declarations.
    This state store should provide access control and auditing on the changes to the Desired State.
    Git, from which GitOps derives its name, is the canonical example used as this state store but any other system that meets these criteria may be used.
    In all cases, these state stores must be properly configured and special precautions must be taken to comply with requirements set out in the GitOps Principles.
```

Quick Grammar
